site/content/tutorial/16-special-elements/07-svelte-options/text.md, before:

---
title: <svelte:options>
---

Lastly, `<svelte:options>` allows you to specify compiler options.

Here, we have a component inside an `<svg>` element. Unless we tell Svelte otherwise, it will compile `Square.svelte` to a module that generates HTML nodes instead of SVG nodes. We can correct that by adding this to the top of `Square.svelte`:

```html
<svelte:options namespace="svg"/>
```

The options that can be set here are:

* `immutable={true}` — you never use mutable data, so the compiler can do simple referential equality checks to determine if values have changed
* `immutable={false}` — the default. Svelte will be more conservative about whether or not mutable objects have changed
* `accessors={true}` — adds getters and setters for the component's props
* `accessors={false}` — the default
* `namespace="..."` — the namespace where this component will be used, most commonly `"svg"`
* `tag="..."` — the name to use when compiling this component as a custom element

Consult the [API reference](docs) for more information on these options.

Commit message:

update svelte:options tutorial chapter, remove example

site/content/tutorial/16-special-elements/07-svelte-options/text.md, after:

---
title: <svelte:options>
---

Lastly, `<svelte:options>` allows you to specify compiler options.

We'll use the `immutable` option as an example. In this app, the `<Todo>` component flashes whenever it receives new data. Clicking on one of the items toggles its `done` state by creating an updated `todos` array. This causes the *other* `<Todo>` items to flash, even though they don't end up making any changes to the DOM.

We can optimise this by telling the `<Todo>` component to expect *immutable* data. This means that we're promising never to *mutate* the `todo` prop, but will instead create new todo objects whenever things change.

Add this to the top of the `Todo.svelte` file:

```html
<svelte:options immutable={true}/>
```

> You can shorten this to `<svelte:options immutable/>` if you prefer.

Now, when you toggle todos by clicking on them, only the updated component flashes.

The options that can be set here are:

* `immutable={true}` — you never use mutable data, so the compiler can do simple referential equality checks to determine if values have changed
* `immutable={false}` — the default. Svelte will be more conservative about whether or not mutable objects have changed
* `accessors={true}` — adds getters and setters for the component's props
* `accessors={false}` — the default
* `namespace="..."` — the namespace where this component will be used, most commonly `"svg"`
* `tag="..."` — the name to use when compiling this component as a custom element

Consult the [API reference](docs) for more information on these options.
