site/content/tutorial/15-context/01-context-api/text.md, before:

---
title: setContext and getContext
---

The context API provides a mechanism for components to 'talk' to each other without passing around data and functions as props, or dispatching lots of events. It's an advanced feature, but a useful one.

Take this example app using a [Mapbox GL](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/overview/) map. We'd like to display the markers, using the `<MapMarker>` component, but we don't want to have to pass around a reference to the underlying Mapbox instance as a prop on each component.

There are two halves to the context API — `setContext` and `getContext`. If a component calls `setContext(key, context)`, then any *child* component can retrieve the context with `const context = getContext(key)`.

Let's set the context first. In `Map.svelte`, import `setContext` from `svelte` and `key` from `mapbox.js` and call `setContext`:

```js
import { onMount, setContext } from 'svelte';
import { mapbox, key } from './mapbox.js';

setContext(key, {
	getMap: () => map
});
```

The context object can be anything you like. Like [lifecycle functions](tutorial/onmount), `setContext` and `getContext` must be called during component initialisation; since `map` isn't created until the component has mounted, our context object contains a `getMap` function rather than `map` itself.

On the other side of the equation, in `MapMarker.svelte`, we can now get a reference to the Mapbox instance:

```js
import { getContext } from 'svelte';
import { mapbox, key } from './mapbox.js';

const { getMap } = getContext(key);
const map = getMap();
```

The markers can now add themselves to the map.

> A more finished version of `<MapMarker>` would also handle removal and prop changes, but we're only demonstrating context here.


## Context keys

In `mapbox.js` you'll see this line:

```js
const key = {};
```

We can use anything as a key — we could do `setContext('mapbox', ...)` for example. The downside of using a string is that different component libraries might accidentally use the same one; using an object literal  means the keys are guaranteed not to conflict in any circumstance, even when you have multiple different contexts operating across many component layers. Note that you have to import the object literal to reference it; just typing `{}` will not work.

> The keys behave in this way because of how the equality operator works in Javascript: [objects are only considered equal if the objects refer to the same actual object, while strings are considered equal if their contents are the same](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Comparison_Operators). You can test this by opening your browser's console and typing `({} === {})` (evaluates to `false`), as opposed to `("foo" === "foo")` or `const a = {}; a === a;` (both evaluate to `true`).

## Context is not reactive
Context is not inherently reactive. If you need context values to be reactive, then you can pass a store into context, which *will* be reactive.

Commit message:

Make point about referential equality more concisely

site/content/tutorial/15-context/01-context-api/text.md, after:

---
title: setContext and getContext
---

The context API provides a mechanism for components to 'talk' to each other without passing around data and functions as props, or dispatching lots of events. It's an advanced feature, but a useful one.

Take this example app using a [Mapbox GL](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/overview/) map. We'd like to display the markers, using the `<MapMarker>` component, but we don't want to have to pass around a reference to the underlying Mapbox instance as a prop on each component.

There are two halves to the context API — `setContext` and `getContext`. If a component calls `setContext(key, context)`, then any *child* component can retrieve the context with `const context = getContext(key)`.

Let's set the context first. In `Map.svelte`, import `setContext` from `svelte` and `key` from `mapbox.js` and call `setContext`:

```js
import { onMount, setContext } from 'svelte';
import { mapbox, key } from './mapbox.js';

setContext(key, {
	getMap: () => map
});
```

The context object can be anything you like. Like [lifecycle functions](tutorial/onmount), `setContext` and `getContext` must be called during component initialisation; since `map` isn't created until the component has mounted, our context object contains a `getMap` function rather than `map` itself.

On the other side of the equation, in `MapMarker.svelte`, we can now get a reference to the Mapbox instance:

```js
import { getContext } from 'svelte';
import { mapbox, key } from './mapbox.js';

const { getMap } = getContext(key);
const map = getMap();
```

The markers can now add themselves to the map.

> A more finished version of `<MapMarker>` would also handle removal and prop changes, but we're only demonstrating context here.


## Context keys

In `mapbox.js` you'll see this line:

```js
const key = {};
```

We can use anything as a key — we could do `setContext('mapbox', ...)` for example. The downside of using a string is that different component libraries might accidentally use the same one; using an object literal means the keys are guaranteed not to conflict in any circumstance (since an object only has referential equality to itself, i.e. `{} !== {}` whereas `"x" === "x"`), even when you have multiple different contexts operating across many component layers.

 > Remember that context is not inherently reactive. If you need context values to be reactive then you can pass a store into context, which *will* be reactive.
